1) Display the
details of all employees 

Ans: select * from employees;





2) Display the depart information from
department table 



 Ans: select * from department ;



3) Display the name and job for all the
employees 


Ans: select name , job from   employees;




4) Display the name and salary  for all the employees 



 Ans: select name , salary from  employees;



5) Display the employee no and
totalsalary  for all the employees 



 Ans: select employee no, totalsalary from  employees;



6) Display the employee name and annual
salary for all employees. 


Ans: select employee name , annual salary from   employees;




7) Display the names of all the employees
who are working in depart number 10. 


Ans: select names from  employees 

   where depart number =10;



8) Display the names of all the employees
who are working as clerks and  drawing
a salary more than 3000. 

Ans: select name from employees

    where job='clerks' and salary>=3000;




9) Display the employee number and
name  who are earning comman salalry


Ans: select number, name from employee

     where salary ='same';



10) Display the employee number and
name  who do not earn any common salary



 Ans: select number , name from employee

       where salary = 'not same';


11) Display the names of employees who
are working as clerks, salesman or 
analyst and drawing a salary more than 3000. 

Ans : select names from employees 

      where job = 'clerks' and 'salesman' or 'analyst'

          and salary>=3000;


12) Display the names of the employees
who are working in the company for  the
past 5 years; 

Ans: select name from employees

     where start_ date <=cur date() - interval 5 year;




13) Display the list of employees who
have joined the company before 
30-JUN-90 or after 31-DEC-90. 

Ans: select * from employees 

     where join date < '90-jun-30'

     or join date > '90-dec-31';


14) Display current Date. 


Ans: select current date();




15) Display the list of all users in your
database (use catalog table). 


Ans : select username from dba _ users;



16) Display the names of all tables from
current user; 


Ans : select tables names from current user;




17) Display the name of the current
user. 

Ans: select name from current user;





18) Display the names of employees
working in depart number 10 or 20 or 40 
or employees working as CLERKS,SALESMAN or ANALYST. 


Ans: select names from employees

    where depart number = 10 or 20 or 40

    or job = 'CLERKS', 'SALESMAN' or 'ANALYST';

19) Display the names of employees whose
name starts with alaphabet S. 

Ans : select names from employees

      where name like 's%';



20) Display the Employee names for
employees whose name ends with alaphabet S.



Ans: select Employee names from employees 

     where name like '__%s';
